# CurrencyConverter

This is a PyQt5-based currency converter application. It loads the UI from a `.ui` file and supports packaging into an installer for distribution.

## Features
- Convert between different currencies.
- Loads and applies custom UI from a `.ui` file.

## Requirements
- Python 3.x
- PyQt5
- PyInstaller (for creating the executable installer)
- Requests module (for getting data from API)
- Pympler module (for measuring cache size in MBs)


## Ways to Run the App

### 1. Running the Executable (`loadui.exe` from `dist/`)

1. **Locate the Executable**:
   - After running PyInstaller, the executable `loadui.exe` will be available inside the `dist/` folder.

2. **Run the App**:
   - Simply double-click `loadui.exe` to launch the application. There is no need to install Python or other dependencies.

### 2. Running Directly via `loadui.py` (Requires Python Environment)

1. **Clone the Repository**:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/CodeVnebula/IT-academy
    cd Assignment_2
    ```

2. **Install Required Libraries**:
    Ensure you have the necessary Python packages installed:
    ```bash
    pip install PyQt5
    pip install pympler
    pip install requests
    ```

    Or just run:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt

    ```

3. **Run the App**:
    Run the Python script directly:
    ```bash
    python loadui.py
    ```

### 3. Running via Installer (`setup.exe`)

1. **Build the Installer**:
   - Use installer that is already in {src} dir and follow steps: 2-3 or:
   - Use Inno Setup (with the provided `.iss` file) to create the installer.
   - Follow the packaging process by first building the executable and then generating the installer using Inno Setup.

2. **Run the Installer**:
   - Execute the `CurrencyConverterSetup.exe` generated by Inno Setup to install the app on any Windows machine.

3. **Launch the App**:
   - After installation, you can launch the app from the installed directory or via the desktop shortcut created during installation.

---

### Packaging the App (Creating the Executable and Installer)

1. **Install PyInstaller**:
    ```bash
    pip install pyinstaller
    ```

2. **Create the Executable**:
    Run PyInstaller to package your app into an executable:
    ```bash
    pyinstaller --noconfirm --onefile --windowed --icon=icons/custom_icon.ico loadui.py
    ```

    This will generate the executable inside the `dist` folder.

3. **Create the Installer Using Inno Setup**:
   - Use the `loadui.iss` file (or another `.iss` script) in **Inno Setup** to package your files into an installer.
   - After running the Inno Setup script, you will get a `.exe` installer that can be distributed and installed on any Windows machine.

---

### Note
Ensure that the `.ui` file and any other resources (like icons) are included during the build process or in the final installer.
